Feature/Encryption Overview Guide (#53)
smartdevicelink/sdl_overview_guides: docs/RPC Encryption/index.md

# RPC Encryption

#### Related Evolution Proposals
- [0207: RPC Message Protection](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/blob/master/proposals/0207-rpc-message-protection.md)

## Overview

> The RPC encryption feature is designed to protect RPC messages transmitted between a mobile application and SDL. RPCs that need encryption and RPCs that do not need encryption share the same RPC service with encryption enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RPC Message Protection feature is designed to encrypt specific RPC messages transmitted between a mobile application and SDL.
```

> ## Determining when Encryption is Needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Determining When Encryption Is Needed
```

### SDL Application

> An SDL app is informed about the encryption requirement by an `OnPermissionsChange` notification sent by SDL Core. The `OnPermissionsChange` notification has a `requireEncryption` boolean parameter, which indicates the encryption requirement on the app level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An SDL app is informed about SDL Core's encryption requirements by an `OnPermissionsChange` notification. The `OnPermissionsChange` notification has a `requireEncryption` boolean parameter, which indicates the encryption requirement for each RPC.
```

Author: The `OnPermissionsChange` notification has its own `requireEncryption` param which indicates whether or not the app requires encryption. The RPC level `requireEncryption` is in the list of PermissionItems. From the spec 

```
.. add two new Boolean parameters with the same name `requireEncryption`. One for app level is added to OnPermissionsChange and the other for RPC level is added to the PermissionItem data type
```

Reviewer: Ok I guess my main concern was the use of the word "app level". I don't think it is descriptive enough for what it is trying to say. 

> The `OnPermissionsChange` notification has a `requireEncryption` boolean parameter, which indicates the encryption requirement for the App. If `requireEncryption` is false, then no RPC's will require encryption. If `requireEncryption` is true, RPC encryption will be required for any RPC that has `requireEncryption = true` in its `PermissionItem` struct.

```xml
<function name="OnPermissionsChange" functionID="OnPermissionsChangeID" messagetype="notification" since="2.0">
    <description>Provides update to app of which policy-table-enabled functions are available</description>
    <param name="permissionItem" type="PermissionItem" minsize="0" maxsize="500" array="true" mandatory="true">
        <description>Change in permissions for a given set of RPCs</description>
    </param>
    <param name="requireEncryption" type="Boolean" mandatory="false" since="6.0"/>
</function>
```

Each `PermissionItem` struct in the notification also contains a `requireEncryption` boolean parameter, which indicates the encryption requirement on the RPC level.

```xml
<struct name="PermissionItem" since="2.0">
    <param name="rpcName" type="String" maxlength="100" mandatory="true">
        <description>Name of the individual RPC in the policy table.</description>
    </param>
    <param name="hmiPermissions" type="HMIPermissions"  mandatory="true"/>
    <param name="parameterPermissions" type="ParameterPermissions"  mandatory="true"/>
    <param name="requireEncryption" type="Boolean" mandatory="false" since="6.0"/>
</struct>
```

> Using the app level and RPC level encryption requirements, the app side will be able to determine whether the app needs encryption or not and which RPCs in particular will need encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `PermissionItem` array, the app will be able to determine if all messages, or a subset of RPC's, will require encryption.
```

Reviewer: @ShobhitAd bump

> An RPC message will require encryption/protection if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An RPC message will require encryption/protection if the app has `requireEncryption=true` in the `OnPermissionsChange` notification, and  the RPC has `requireEncryption=true` in the `PermissionItem`.
```

> - The app has `requireEncryption=true` in the `OnPermissionsChange` notification and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - The RPC has `requireEncryption=true` in the `PermissionItem`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        },
        ...
    }
}
```
Whereas the  [`encryption_required`](https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/sdl-overview-guides/policies/app-policies/#encryption_required) flag, in the `app_policies` section, indicates whether the app requires encryption or not.

#### JSON Example

```json
"app_policies": {
    "default": {
      "encryption_required": false,
      "keep_context": false,
      "steal_focus": false,
      "priority": "NONE",
      "default_hmi": "NONE",
      "groups": [
        "Base-4"
      ]
    },
    "appid_12345": {
      "encryption_required": true,
      "keep_context": false,
      "steal_focus": true,
      "priority": "NONE",
      "default_hmi": "NONE",
      "groups": [
        "Base-4", "RemoteControl"
      ]
    },
    ...
}
```
SDL Core informs an SDL application about the encryption requirement via an `OnPermissionsChange` notification.

!!! NOTE
Multiple functional groups can include the same RPC, each group having an `encryption_required` flag.

If an app has access to multiple functional groups containing the same RPC and **at least one** of the groups requires encryption, then the RPC shall require encryption.
!!!

> 

Reviewer: Add a note about how the encryption_required flag in the policy table translates to the RPC. Also mention the requirements about omitting from the policy table etc...

From the proposal:

```
If encryption_required=false in the app level in app_policies, sdl core and mobile proxy shall not enable rpc encryption regardless of the value of encryption_required in the function group level. SDL core does not need to check the flag in the function group level. Mobile proxy does not need to check the flag in RPC level.

If encryption_required=true or encryption_required does not exist in the app level, the flag in the function group level or RPC level shall be checked.

If encryption_required=true for a function group, all the RPCs within that function group must be sent/received in an encryption enabled SDL service. This means the app has been authenticated via TLS handshake and RPC request and response messages are encrypted. If encryption_required=false or encryption_required does not exist for a function group, the RPC messages of that function group shall not be encrypted and can be transmitted in both encryption enabled and disabled SDL services.
```

> ## Handling unencrypted messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Handling Unencrypted Messages
```

SDL Core sends this result code to an SDL app when it receives an un-encrypted RPC request message **that needs encryption**.

```xml
<enum name="Result" internal_scope="base" since="1.0">
...
    <element name="ENCRYPTION_NEEDED" since="6.0">
        <description>SDL receives an un-encrypted RPC request that needs protection. </description>
    </element>
</enum>
```

> ## Setting up Encryption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setting Up Encryption
```
